---
author: joshbax-msft
title: ALUA MPIO Test (LOGO)
description: ALUA MPIO Test (LOGO)
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 8a3d74b4-f8b8-4904-853f-63afc5732c70
---

# ALUA MPIO Test (LOGO)


This test verifies whether storage devices support the ALUA feature properly.

Asymmetric logical unit access (ALUA) occurs when the access characteristics of one port may differ from those of another port. Therefore, for storage devices with ALUA feature implemented, there may be at least two target port groups.

The test checks whether the device declares support to ALUA by checking the INQUIRY TPGS field before additional testing. If the TGPS field is not 0, then the storage devices at least support REPORT TARGET PORT GROUPS, and the Report Target Port Groups test will be done. If TPGS is 2 or 3, then the storage devices support both REPORT TARGET PORT GROUPS and explicit SET TARGET PORT GROUPS. In this case, the test will perform the Report Target Port Groups test and Set Target Port Groups test.

**Warning**  
This test depends on the SCSI Compliance Test 2.0 binary. Please make sure that LUN0 is the largest non-boot LUN before running the test.

 

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Storage.Hd.Alua.Compliance</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows Server 2008 x64 Windows Server 2008 x86Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~5 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Hard Disk Drive Testing Prerequisites](hard-disk-drive-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Storage Testing](troubleshooting-devicestorage-testing.md).

 

 






