---
author: joshbax-msft
title: Blt - Textures
description: Blt - Textures
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 41f07bcb-2a27-4ee1-8b59-2e0e5f9719e7
---

# Blt - Textures


This automated test verifies that graphics adapters correctly perform blts between a variety of texture formats. The tests are categorized by the memory type of the source and destination textures (System, Video, and accelerated graphics port \[AGP\]).

Blt results are compared against a simulation by using either Graphics Device Interface (GDI) operations or the test's internal software blitter. Images are expected to match exactly.

Drivers must support source color key blts between video memory surfaces. Destination color key blts and "space" blts are optional.

This test consists of the following Fnddraw cases:

-   Blt\_Texture Vid to Vid

-   Blt\_Texture Sys to AGP

-   Blt\_Texture Sys to Vid

-   Blt\_Texture Sys to Sys

Each test runs through a variety of pixel formats, blitting between the memory types that are expressed in the test name. Each blt is a simple copy (no stretching or color keying in this revision of the test). The test expects the destination to perfectly match the source after the blt. Any deviation is considered a failure.

All blts are performed on offscreen surfaces (that is, textures). However, the results are copied to the screen to help you with debugging. (Some details are likely lost in converting from the texture pixel format to the pixel format of the primary surface.)

Currently, the test tolerates a driver that returns DDERR\_UNSUPPORTED on the blt call, and does not consider it a failure. This tolerance might change in the future.

Failures might occur from drivers that allow textures to be created in unsupported pixel formats. Drivers should fail the CanCreateSurface function for all non-system memory textures whose pixel formats the drivers do not support. The test blindly runs through a predetermined list of pixel formats. It trusts that the driver will fail the surface creation, if the pixel format is not supported.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   Blt - Textures

-   Blt - Textures (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.MinimumDirectXLevel</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

In addition, this test requires the following software and hardware.

-   DirectX® version 7.0 or later

-   Display adapter with DDraw capabilities

## Troubleshooting


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

Turn off the screen saver and disable the power management before you run this test. Mode changes and full-screen applications can cause failures, so you should avoid them.

## More information


Most of the Microsoft® DirectDraw tests (including the Automatic Stereo test) are located in Fnddraw.exe. You can run Fnddraw.exe outside of the Display Compatibility Test (DCT) shell, and select individual tests. On the **Tests** menu, click **Select Tests**.

The test titles that are listed in the DCT shell do not directly match the test names in Fnddraw.exe. In fact, the names in the DCT often refer to a group of Fnddraw tests. You can obtain the Fnddraw test case names from the DCT log file.

You can pause many Fnddraw tests (especially blt-related tests) to give you time to analyze the blt results. Use the Pause key to pause and resume.

Use the Esc key to stop a test run. Be aware that some tests are more responsive than others.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fnddraw dd_txblt.pro -r -c -p&quot;m%MONITOR%&quot;</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rusn the test. Replace the %MONITOR% parameter with a 1-based index that corresponds to the display that you are testing.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Fnddraw.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttestwindowstest\graphics\d3d\conf\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Fnswtt.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dd_txblt.pro</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf\pro\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
You do not need Fnswtt.dll to run this test. It is used only for Windows HCK logging.

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20Blt%20-%20Textures%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




