---
author: joshbax-msft
title: DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory
description: DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 0be3367b-53c8-46bd-bd88-1a8d553c3e3f
---

# DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory


This automated test verifies that a graphics adapter can successfully perform color fill blt operations on video memory surfaces.

The test performs a series of color fill operations directly onto the primary surface. It chooses fill regions so that a variety of sizes and memory alignments are tested. The results of the color fills are compared against a reference image that is generated by using graphics device interface (GDI).

Display drivers must support hardware-accelerated color fills. Drivers indicates this support by setting the DDCAPS\_BLTCOLORFILL flag.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory

-   DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.MinimumDirectXLevel</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~5 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

In addition, this test requires the following software:

-   Microsoft® DirectX® version 7.0 or later

-   Display adapter driver with DDraw capabilities

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

Turn off the screen saver and disable the power management before you run this test. Mode changes and full-screen applications can cause failures, so you should avoid them.

## More information


Most of the Microsoft DirectDraw tests (including the DDraw AGP Memory test) are located in Fnddraw.exe. You can run Fnddraw.exe outside of the Display Compatibility Test (DCT) shell, and select initial tests. On the **Tests** menu, click **Select Tests**.

The test titles that are listed in the DCT shell do not directly match the test names in Fnddraw.exe. In fact, the names in the DCT often refer to a group of Fnddraw tests. You can obtain the Fnddraw test case names from the DCT log file.

You can pause many Fnddraw tests (especially blt-related tests) to give you time to visually analyze the blt results. Use the Pause key to pause and resume.

Use the Esc key to stop a test run. Be patient because some tests are more responsive than others.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fnddraw dd_vcf.pro -l&quot;fnswtt.dll&quot; -r -c -p&quot;m%MONITOR% &quot; /WTTLogDevStr:$logfile</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This command runs both the DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory test job and the DDraw Blt - ColorFill - Video Memory (WoW64) test job.</p>
<p>Replace the %MONITOR% parameter with a 1-based index that corresponds to the display that you are testing.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dd_vcf.pro</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf\pro</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Fnddraw.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Fnswtt.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
You do not need Fnswtt.dll to run this test. It is used only for Windows HCK logging.

 

 

 






