---
author: joshbax-msft
title: Device.Graphics Testing
description: Device.Graphics Testing
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 5a91b09b-f235-483a-8cd6-8c6184064350
---

# Device.Graphics Testing


This section describes how to test display devices and certify them for use on Windows® as part of the Windows Certification Program. To begin the testing part of the certification process, you must install and run the Windows Hardware Certification Kit (Windows HCK), and then set up your test environment. For information about how to install and configure the Windows HCK, see [Step 1: Install Controller and Studio on the test server](step-1-install-controller-and-studio-on-the-test-server.md).

The Device.Graphics category includes the following types of devices:

-   Stand-alone graphics cards (for example, AGP or PCI-X adapters) for use in desktop computers or integrated graphic chipsets for desktop or mobile computers or tablets.

-   CRT or flat-panel display monitors or projectors.

    **Note**  
    Integrated graphic devices are tested during system certification.

     

Monitors that have multiple connection types only need to submit logs that have one connection tested. For flat panel or plasma monitors that support digital (that is, DVI or HDMI) and analog (that is, DSUB) connections, the logs must be generated by using the digital connection. You can test CRT monitors under any connection type that is supported. We highly recommend that you test the additional connections under the same circumstances by using the relevant monitor tests, but no logs are required for submission. In the future, the Windows HCK might allow testing for multiple connection types within the same submission or log set. At this time, the policy will be updated to require testing all connections that are available on a monitor.

This section includes:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Topic</th>
<th>Details</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[Display Monitor Testing Prerequisites](display-monitor-testing-prerequisites.md)</p></td>
<td><p>This topic provides information about test prerequisites and specific setup procedures that you must follow before you test your display monitor (CRT or flat panel) or projector.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md)</p></td>
<td><p>This topic provides information about test prerequisites and specific setup procedures that you must follow before you test your graphics adapter or chipset.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md)</p></td>
<td><p>This topic provides overall Device.Graphics test troubleshooting information.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[Display Monitor Tests](display-monitor-tests.md)</p></td>
<td><p>This topic includes documentation for every display monitor test in the Windows HCK.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[Graphic Adapter or Chipset Tests](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-tests.md)</p></td>
<td><p>This topic includes documentation for every display adapter or chipset test in the Windows HCK.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

For test-specific prerequisites or troubleshooting details, review individual test topics.

**Note**  
For best practices for Windows HCK testing, and tips to avoid common failures, see [Troubleshooting the Windows HCK Environment](troubleshooting-the-windows-hck-environment.md).

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20Device.Graphics%20Testing%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




