---
author: joshbax-msft
title: HybridPowerManagement\_AppRunning
description: HybridPowerManagement\_AppRunning
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 873fa7cc-ca2a-4f7c-bab7-845a304feafe
---

# HybridPowerManagement\_AppRunning


Power management tests run on dGPU while analyzing Power-Management ETW events that are generated by DXGKrnl. For this test, an application is running on DGPU. The test performs following validations:

-   Validation of Power components – the test validates that all required power components are declared by the driver.

-   Validation of latency – the driver reports latency (time for a component to transition to another F-state). The test checks that this number matches the actual latency.

-   Validate Active/Idle state of the component – checks that power components are in expected Active/Idle state (based on the test scenario).

-   Validate DState – checks that DGPU is in expected D state (based on the test scenario).

-   Validate DGPU process – checks which processes have devices on DGPU. Anything other than the test itself will result in failure.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>System.Fundamentals.Graphics.HybridGraphics.MultiGPU</p>
<p>[See the system hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254482)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~30 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [WDTF System Fundamentals Testing Prerequisites](wdtf-system-fundamentals-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting System Fundamentals Testing](troubleshooting-system-fundamentals-testing.md).

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Error</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Conformance issues</p></td>
<td><p>When the test detects a conformance issue, it saves an image in the test directory if the <strong>-saveBMP</strong> parameter is specified. You can view this image to help diagnose the issue.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Validation failures</p></td>
<td><p>To get more information about the failure, run the test under User Mode Debugger. The test will output the information that it gets from ETW events, to help diagnose the failure.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## More information


### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Parameter</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>-saveBMP</strong></p></td>
<td><p>By using this parameter, the test saves presented images in BMP format to the test directory in case of conformance failure. This is useful for diagnosing conformance failures.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-whql | -featurelevel:&lt;fl&gt;</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>-whql</strong> results in device creation with highest support on a given adapter. <strong>–featurelevel:&lt;fl&gt;</strong> creates a device of requested feature level</p>
<p>Default value: <strong>-wqhl</strong> for DX10+ drivers; <strong>-featurelevel</strong>:9.1 for DX9 drivers</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>-hybrid</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This value forces application execution on dGPU as if it was on the DList.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






