---
author: joshbax-msft
title: SD-Ioctl Test
description: SD-Ioctl Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: c5fa1918-7b6f-448d-bf0a-8496b2439637
---

# SD-Ioctl Test


This test verifies that SD-specific IOCTL calls work from any user mode process as expected.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Storage.Controller.SD.BasicFunction</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~5 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [WDTF System Fundamentals Testing Prerequisites](wdtf-system-fundamentals-testing-prerequisites.md).

The test expects that an SD card is inserted into the host controller and working before the test begins.

## Troubleshooting


The test sends several variations of IOCTLs to the disk and validates the response. In the case of an error sending the IOCTL or validating the response, the logs contain information about the errors. To check the WTT trace, perform the following steps:

-   View Task Log of Run SDIOCTL Test.

-   Open the log file sdioctltst.wtl.

-   Check for messages that may solve the issue.

For additional troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting System Fundamentals Testing](troubleshooting-system-fundamentals-testing.md).

## More information


The test will go through a series of IOCTLs and various parameters surrounding those IOCTLs. It will send them to the underlying disk and validate the response conforms to the requirements. Log information about which IOCTLs and the results are printed as tests cases in the log.

The following is a list of the IOCTLs that are covered in this file:

1.  IOCTL\_DISK\_MEDIA\_REMOVAL

2.  IOCTL\_DISK\_GET\_LENGTH\_INFO

3.  IOCTL\_DISK\_IS\_WRITABLE

4.  IOCTL\_DISK\_VERIFY

5.  IOCTL\_STORAGE\_CHECK\_VERIFY

6.  IOCTL\_STORAGE\_CHECK\_VERIFY2

7.  IOCTL\_DISK\_CHECK\_VERIFY

8.  IOCTL\_DISK\_GET\_CACHE\_INFORMATION

9.  IOCTL\_STORAGE\_GET\_HOTPLUG\_INFO

10. IOCTL\_STORAGE\_SET\_HOTPLUG\_INFO

11. IOCTL\_STORAGE\_GET\_DEVICE\_NUMBER

12. IOCTL\_DISK\_GET\_DRIVE\_GEOMETRY

13. IOCTL\_DISK\_GET\_DRIVE\_GEOMETRY\_EX

14. IOCTL\_STORAGE\_GET\_MEDIA\_TYPES\_EX

15. IOCTL\_STORAGE\_QUERY\_PROPERTY

16. IOCTL\_SCSI\_GET\_ADDRESS

17. IOCTL\_STORAGE\_GET\_MEDIA\_SERIAL\_NUMBER

18. IOCTL\_SFFDISK\_QUERY\_DEVICE\_PROTOCOL

19. IOCTL\_SFFDISK\_DEVICE\_COMMAND

20. IOCTL\_SFFDISK\_DEVICE\_PASSWORD

## Command usage


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>sdioctltst.exe -c &quot;[WDKDeviceID]&quot;</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Run the test for the specified device instance ID.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Command syntax


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>sdioctltst.exe</p></td>
<td><p>The command-line options for the test are listed below.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>-d</p></td>
<td><p>This can be either sffdisk or sdbus.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>-n</p></td>
<td><p>The specific test number.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>-c</p></td>
<td><p>The device instance ID of the controller.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## File list


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>sdioctltst.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\NTTest\testsrc\driverstest\storage\sd\ioctl\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






