---
author: joshbax-msft
title: Syscache Test
description: Syscache Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: a1b81edf-3959-4888-907b-b26aeff78854
---

# Syscache Test


This is an automated test that writes to a file and verifies that the data written is read back correctly. It can detect corruptions caused by anything in the path from firmware, drivers, file system, memory, etc. It uses standard Win32 File System and memory management APIs to read and write data from the file. The test binary is readwrit.exe.

Syscache opens a file with a certain flag/attribute and writes to the file. Each chosen flag may span several runs on the file.

A run is defined as a set of the following sequence:

-   Create/open a file.

-   Truncate the filesize to 0.

-   Write to the file.

-   Close the file.

-   Reopen the file.

-   Read the file.

-   Verify file content.

-   Close the file.

There is a set of zero and non-zero regions in the file. Zero regions are areas in the file where no data was written. Non-zero regions are areas in the file where data was written. The pattern is a DWORD of the format RRPPPPPP. The top two bytes are the run number, and the next 3 bytes are the one's complement of the offset of this DWORD in the file.

The following attributes are used for writing a file:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Write Attribute</th>
<th>Explanation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_SEQUENTIAL_SCAN</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_NO_BUFFERING</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_NO_BUFFERING</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_WRITE_THROUGH</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NO_BUFFERING | WRITE_THROUGH</p></td>
<td><p>See CreateFile() Documentation</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SPARSE_FILE</p></td>
<td><p>The file is set to sparse.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NORMAL APPEND_WRITE</p></td>
<td><p>Same as FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL; closes and reopening the file per write and appending the next region.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_SECTOR_CHUNKS</p></td>
<td><p>Same as FILE_FLAG_NO_BUFFERING, data is written one sector at a time.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FILE_MAP</p></td>
<td><p>Same as FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL, data is written via memory mapping.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_OVEREXTEND</p></td>
<td><p>Same as FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL, data is written via memory mapping.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

The following attributes are used for reading from the file:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Read Attribute</th>
<th>Explanation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FILE_MAP</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL, data is read via memory mapping</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NO_BUFFERING</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_NO_BUFFERING</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NORMAL</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>RANDOM_ACCESS</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_RANDOM_ACCESS</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>SEQUENTIAL_SCAN</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_SEQUENTIAL_SCAN</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TEMPORARY</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_TEMPORARY</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>WRITE_THROUGH</p></td>
<td><p>FILE_FLAG_WRITE_THROUGH</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Filter.Driver.AntiVirus.MiniFilter Filter.Driver.FileSystem.Functionality Filter.Driver.FileSystem.MiniFilter</p>
<p>[See the filter hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254485)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~180 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


For more information about requirements, see [File System Testing Prerequisites](file-system-testing-prerequisites.md).

In addition, this test requires extra hard drive space for four simple 2,048-megabyte (MB) partitions and two simple 1,024-MB partitions.

Before you run the test, you must add the following partitions to the test computer.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="25%" />
<col width="25%" />
<col width="25%" />
<col width="25%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Label</th>
<th>File system</th>
<th>Size</th>
<th>Expected drive letter</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NTFS</p></td>
<td><p>NTFS</p></td>
<td><p>2,048 MB</p></td>
<td><p>g:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>CNTFS</p></td>
<td><p>NTFS (compressed)</p></td>
<td><p>2,048 MB</p></td>
<td><p>i:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>FAT</p></td>
<td><p>FAT16</p></td>
<td><p>1,024 MB</p></td>
<td><p>k:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>FAT32</p></td>
<td><p>FAT32</p></td>
<td><p>1,024 MB</p></td>
<td><p>l:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>ExFAT</p></td>
<td><p>ExFAT</p></td>
<td><p>2,048 MB</p></td>
<td><p>m:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>UDF</p></td>
<td><p>UDF</p></td>
<td><p>2,048 MB</p></td>
<td><p>n:</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>REFS</p></td>
<td><p>REFS</p></td>
<td><p>10240mb</p></td>
<td><p>o:</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting File System Testing](troubleshooting-file-system-testing.md).

When the test fails, the log contains all of the information you need to analyze the failure. Look for the following information to reproduce the error:

-   The "Write Attribute". Look up the table of write attributes to find how the data was written to the file.

-   The "Read Attribute". Look up the table of read attributes to find out how the data was read back from the file.

-   The offset at which the error occurred.

-   The region of the file in which the error occurred. The test typically writes entire region using a single write (with the exception of the FILE\_FLAG\_SECTOR\_CHUNKS option).

To run this test, make sure that the computer has NTFS, CNTFS, FAT16, FAT32, ExFAT, and UDF volumes set up. Also, make sure that the drive letter for this volume is entered in the **&lt;filesystem&gt;\_DRIVE\_LETTER** parameters.

This test returns Pass or Fail. To review test details, review the test log from Windows Hardware Certification Kit (Windows HCK) Studio.

## More information


### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WrapSyscache.cmd [NTFS_DRIVE_LETTER] [CNTFS_DRIVE_LETTER] [FAT_DRIVE_LETTER] [FAT32_DRIVE_LETTER] [EXFAT_DRIVE_LETTER] [UDF_DRIVE_LETTER] [WTTRunWorkingDir]</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Writes to a file and verifies that the data written is read back correctly</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command-line help for this test binary, type **/h**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ntlog.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[osbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\CommonTest\NtLog\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ntlogger.ini</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[osbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\CommonTest\NtLog\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Readwrit.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\BASETEST\core_file_services\cachemgr\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>RunSyscache.cmd</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\BASETEST\Core_File_Services\FilterManager\TestSuite\Scripts\FileSystems\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stresslog.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\basetest\core_file_services\shared_libs\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>WrapSyscache.cmd</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\BASETEST\Core_File_Services\FilterManager\TestSuite\Scripts\FileSystems\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20Syscache%20Test%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




