---
author: joshbax-msft
title: Test.ZHeight
description: Test.ZHeight
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 34117098-737b-4814-820d-ea6bd9b286bd
---

# Test.ZHeight


This test verifies that device does not detect contacts that are not directly on the surface of the touchpad.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Input.PrecisionTouchpad.Precision.MaxReportZHeight</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Manual</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Mouse or other Pointing Device Testing Prerequisites](mouse-or-other-pointing-device-testing-prerequisites.md).

To run this test, you will need precision capacitive contacts that can be placed 1mm above the surface of the touchpad and remain steady for a period of time. It is recommended that this test be performed by a robot or other precision mechanism.

1.  Place 1mm thick material on top of touchpad.

2.  Lower a precision contact until it just touches the non-conductive material.

3.  Remove the material.

4.  Leave contact in place above touchpad for 1 minute.

5.  Verify that no contact is reported and press **P** to manually pass the test. If contact is reported, press **F** to fail the test.

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Input Testing](troubleshooting-deviceinput-testing.md).

## More information


### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ptlogo.exe Test.ZHeight.json</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>ptlogo.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>config.json</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Test.ZHeight.json</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;testbinroot&gt;</em>\input\PrecisionTouchpad\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20Test.ZHeight%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




