---
author: joshbax-msft
title: Test.DeviceButton
description: Test.DeviceButton
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: fb694815-3ccb-4a60-854d-3b5380208299
---

# Test.DeviceButton


This manual test verifies that a Windows Precision Touchpad button can be depressed.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Input.PrecisionTouchpad.Hardware.Clickpad</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Manual</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Mouse or other Pointing Device Testing Prerequisites](mouse-or-other-pointing-device-testing-prerequisites.md).

There are two iterations of this test, as follows.

1.  Iteration 1: Button presses with capacitive contacts

    1.  Following the instructions on the screen, put one finger on the center of the touchpad surface, and depress the physical button. Verify that the button state is down (the grey bar in the test should turn green), and that the button state returns to off when the pressure is removed.

    2.  Repeat the last step with 2, 3… *N* contacts, where *N* is the maximum number of contacts that are supported by the device.

        If the touchpad’s physical button is reported anytime it is depressed, and stops being reported as soon as it is released, manually pass the iteration.

2.  Iteration 2: Button presses with non-capacitive contacts

    1.  Place a non-capacitive contact on the center of the touchpad surface, and apply pressure to depress the physical button. Verify that the button state is down (the grey bar in **PTLogo** should turn green), and that the button state returns to off when the pressure is removed.

    2.  If the touchpad’s physical button is reported anytime it is depressed, and stops being reported as soon as it is released, manually pass the iteration.

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Input Testing](troubleshooting-deviceinput-testing.md).

## More information


To run the test outside of Windows Hardware Certification Kit (Windows HCK) Studio, type the following command in a command prompt window that has administrative privileges:

``` syntax
PTLogo.exe Test.DeviceButton.json
```

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20Test.DeviceButton%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




