---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 Tessellation
description: WGF11 Tessellation
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 62b61e78-4208-477c-9300-48d0d5571baa
---

# WGF11 Tessellation


This automated test verifies driver behavior with regards to the D3D11 Tessellation feature. Various aspects of this feature are tested, including the hull and domain shader stages, hull shader phases, and the fixed function tessellator.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   WGF11 Tessellation

-   WGF11 Tessellation (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D111Core.D3D111CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D11Core.D3D11CorePrimary</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

All test cases return PASS or FAIL. Review the test results in the log file from the Windows HCK Manager for specific details about failures. The test might return SKIP if it is run with a feature level lower than 11.0. The test might return BLOCKED if there is an uncaught exception (framework catches it at the end and logs it).

## More information


This test covers the following four test groups:

**Tessellator**

This test group verifies that the fixed function tessellator is implemented according to the spec. It cycles on the following items and compares the result to the reference rasterizer:

-   Domain (quad, tri, isolines)

-   Partition (integer, pow2, and so on)

-   Topology (point, line, tri, and so on)

-   TessValues

**Hull**

This group tests the hull shader portion of the tessellation stage. Shaders generate control points that are sorted by the test and compared to expected values. The contents of the control points depend on what the values the test is cycling on, which is similar to the Tessellator test group above. It verifies the following:

-   The input CPs are correctly read by the control point phase.

-   HS is executed once per output control point (not easily verifiable, only a number of output CPs are visible).

-   Output data is correct for inputs (via pass-through DS and stream-out).

-   Primitive ID is identical across a patch. Other system-generated values are also accurate.

-   Pipeline statistics updated appropriately.

**Domain**

This group tests the domain shader portion of the tessellation stage. Shaders generate vertices that are compared to expected values. The contents of the vertices depend on what the values the test is cycling on, which is similar to the Tessellator test group above. It verifies the following:

-   Primitive ID identical across a patch. Other system-generated values also accurate.

-   All data is available and accurate.

**HullPhases**

This group tests the phases of the hull shade, including fork and join. Because these phases are not exposed in HLSL the test uses assembly shaders to verify fork and join. It verifies the following:

-   Input and output CPs correctly read by fork and join phases.

-   Fork phase output correctly read by join phase.

-   Output patch constants are correct and fully written (no overwrites or instances getting dropped).

-   Pipeline statistics updated appropriately.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Wgf11tessellation</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test. Without any options, the test enumerates devices.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-FeatureLevel:XX.X</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the feature level. Here XX.X is the Feature Level the test will run at, 10.0, 10.1, or 11.0.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11_1sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3d11ref.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3dcompiler_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3dx10_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>d3dx11_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>wgf11tessellation.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






