---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 D3DWDDM
description: WGF11 D3DWDDM
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: d6476722-f82d-4f1f-bf0b-79de68490779
---

# WGF11 D3DWDDM


This automated test verifies that WDDM drivers expose the necessary DDIs as documented in the WDDM hardware functional spec. For example, the new D3D9 and/or D3D11.1 DDIs are supported on WDDM 1.2 drivers, but not on WDDM 1.0 or 1.1 drivers.

This test runs on all graphics devices with WDDM drivers.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.WDDM.Render.Base Device.Graphics.WDDM11.Render.Base Device.Graphics.WDDM12.Render.Base</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~1 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

Also, be sure to review the command line parameters; it is suggested that you always use **–whql** or **–featurelevel:\[X.Y\]** to avoid create device issues. The test always uses **–whql** when run from Windows Hardware Certification Kit (Windows HCK) Studio.

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

All test cases return PASS or FAIL. To review test details, review the test log from Windows® Hardware Certification Kit (Windows HCK) Studio. The test might return SKIP, which you should consider to be PASS for the overall test if no WDDM render devices are present on the system. If the test does not detect WDDM render devices and the hardware does support them, a problem exists with the way that the specific device advertises itself.

## More information


.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WGF11D3DWDDM</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Without any options, the test’s framework will attempt to create a D3D device at the highest possible feature level (currently feature level 11.1). If your device doesn’t support this feature level the test will fail. Use either <strong>–featurelevel:[X.Y]</strong> or <strong>–whql</strong> to run the test. See <strong>-?</strong> for more details on command line usage.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-whql</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This option specifies a WHCK (WHQL) mode where feature levels are enumerated. You should always use this option when running the test.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>WGF11D3DWDDM.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\Graphics\D3D\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






