---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 Shader 5x
description: WGF11 Shader 5x
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 41033b03-ace6-48f8-af72-aa555c67266a
---

# WGF11 Shader 5x


This automated test utilizes the D3D11 APIs and Shader 4.0, 4.1, or 5.0 instruction set, depending on the feature level specified on the command line. The test doesn't rely on the compiler; instead it assembles shaders to ensure specific instructions are fully tested and not altered by the compiler. During execution, the test cycles between different instructions (each instruction is a separate group), shader stages, register values, and mask/swizzle combinations. Each test case uses different data depending on the current instruction and its behavior as described by the spec.

WGF11Shader5x adds support for new 4.x instructions (including doubles) and stages (like the Compute Shader), if the driver supports it.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   WGF11 Shader 5x

-   WGF11 Shader 5x - DoubleArith

-   WGF11 Shader 5x - DoubleArith (WoW64)

-   WGF11 Shader 5x - Extended double precision shader instructions

-   WGF11 Shader 5x - Extended double precision shader instructions (WoW64)

-   WGF11 Shader 5x (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D101Core.D3D101CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D10Core.D3D10CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D111Core.D3D111CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D11Core.D3D11CorePrimary</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~20 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

All test cases return PASS or FAIL. Review the test results in the log file for specific details about failures.

The test might return SKIP if the shader stages are not supported. For example, if running the test with feature level 10.0, HULL and DOMAIN shaders are not supported, so those tests will skip. The test will also skip if specific formats, quality levels, doubles, and so on are not supported. The test asks the driver for support before executing a given test. To run the test with a different feature level, use one of the following command line options (also see below):

-   featurelevel:10.0

-   featurelevel:10.1

-   featurelevel:11.0

If your driver sample is in one location, but it reports that the location is in another location during the test, or if the sample locations change between draw calls, you may fail the test with the following error: "samplepos returned incorrect sample location".

One possible cause for this error is that the test specifies the sample index 0 at (32, 32) in the 256x256 sub-pixel grid, because the driver lit the pixel when a sub-pixel quad was rendered there. However, your driver is returning (192, 192) for sample index 0 through the samplepos instruction.

Test command line: WGF11Shader5x.exe: -src:hw -logclean multisample\\samplepos\\2\\9:9 -featurelevel:11.0

Error message in the log:

``` syntax
Test Case 9: Multisample\samplepos\2\9 Fail + Test Case 9: Multisample\samplepos\2\9 Fail Parameter: Format=R32G32B32A32_FLOAT Parameter: Dimension=TEXTURE2DMS Parameter: SampleCount=2 Parameter: SampleQuality=1 Parameter: Height=3 Parameter: Width=7 Parameter: rasterizer=true Parameter: SRV_Bound=false Parameter: SampleIndex=0 Pixel [0,0], Sample[0] samplepos returned (8, 8) actual sample position = (-12, -12) [CSampleInfoTest::ExecuteTestCase()] samplepos returned incorrect sample location.
```

## More information


.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Wgf11shader5x</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test. Without any options, the test enumerates devices.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-FeatureLevel:XX.X</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the feature level of the test, where XX.X is the Feature Level the test will run at: 10.0, 10.1, or 11.0.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11_1sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3d11ref.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3dcompiler_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3dx10_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>d3dx11_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wgf11shader5x.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20WGF11%20Shader%205x%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




