---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 Viewports
description: WGF11 Viewports
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 6fc771dc-7819-4c72-ad68-37d71c41dfdd
---

# WGF11 Viewports


This automated test verifies that the behavior of viewports and scissors of the device is consistent with the DX11 specification.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   WGF11 Viewports

-   WGF11 Viewports (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D101Core.D3D101CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D10Core.D3D10CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D111Core.D3D111CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D11Core.D3D11CorePrimary</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

Test cases return one of the following results: Pass, Fail, Blocked, and Skipped. The log file will contain specific details about the test cases that are failed, blocked,or skipped. A test case will return Skipped if it is invalid according to the current hardware configuration ( e.g. some features are optional and may not be supported by some hardware) and the command line options (e.g. some test cases are only valid for certain feature levels). A test case will return Blocked if the failure is caused by reasons other than the tested feature. To review test details, review the test log from the Windows HCK Manager.

## More information


The test covers the following areas:

-   Multiple (up to 16) viewports set/in use.

-   Verify use of arbitrary viewport.

-   Verify overlapping viewports.

-   Verify "ViewportArrayIndex" higher than viewports set is treated as 0, and no index is treated as zero.

-   The value of SV\_ViewportArrayIndex passed to pixel shader is unclamped/unconverted.

-   Verify viewport scale is done in float32 arith.

-   Verify the use of scissor with default viewport (viewport with the same size of the render target).

-   More cases of scissors: larger-than-target, off-target, and arbitrary offsets within the viewports.

-   Verify the usage of SV\_ViewportArrayIndex by Geometry shader to split the geometry to two different viewports.

-   If the test runs on feature level 11.0 and above, all viewports defined by fractional values.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wgf11viewports</p></td>
<td><p>Without any options, the test enumerates devices.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>-FeatureLevel:XX.X</p></td>
<td><p>Where XX.X is the Feature Level the test will run at, 10.0, 10.1, or 11.0</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11_1sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3d11ref.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3dcompiler_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3dx10_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>d3dx11_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wgf11viewports.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






