---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 Draw
description: WGF11 Draw
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 855fb286-dc59-4437-825c-e99e647ad002
---

# WGF11 Draw


This automated test verifies that the behavior of draw calls of the graphics drivers/hardware meets the DX11 specification.

**Note**  
The test covers draw calls and indirect draw calls.

 

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   WGF11 Draw

-   WGF11 Draw (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D101Core.D3D101CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D10Core.D3D10CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D111Core.D3D111CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D11Core.D3D11CorePrimary</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

Test cases return one of the following results:

-   Pass

-   Fail

-   Blocked

-   Skipped

The log file will contain specific details about the test cases that are failed, blocked, or skipped. A test case will return Skipped if it is invalid according to the current hardware configuration (some features are optional and may not be supported by some hardware) and the command line options (some test cases are only valid for certain feature levels). A test case will return Blocked if the failure is caused by reasons other than the tested feature. To review test details, review the test log from the Windows HCK Manager.

## More information


In the Draw test group:

-   Draw functions are cycled, including Draw(), DrawIndexed(), DrawInstanced() and DrawIndexedInstanced().

-   The vertex buffer size, vertex buffer offset, index buffer size, and index buffer offset cycle through different values.

-   The number of elements in the vertex buffer and the input classification cycle through different values.

-   The number of vertices to draw and the start vertex location cycle through different values.

-   Other parameters that are specific to different draw functions, including index count, start index location, instance count, start instance location, and base vertex location, also cycle through different values.

-   Test results are read back from the stream output buffer and verified against expected values.

-   Pipeline statistics, including VSInvocations, IAPrimitives, and IAVertices are verified.

In the DrawIndirect test group:

-   Draw indirect functions are cycled, including DrawInstancedIndirect() and DrawIndexedInstancedIndirect().

-   The methods to fill in the argument buffer include UpdateSubresource, StreamOutput buffer, RenderTarget buffer, and CopyStructureCount.

-   The aligned byte offset for the argument buffer cycles through different values.

-   Test results are read back from the stream output buffer and verified against expected values.

-   Pipeline statistics, including VSInvocations, IAPrimitives, and IAVertices are verified.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Wgf11draw</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test jobs. Without any options, the test enumerates devices.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-FeatureLevel:XX.X</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the feature level, where XX.X is the Feature Level the test will run at: 10.0, 10.1, or 11.0.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11_1sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3d11ref.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3dcompiler_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3dx10_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>d3dx11_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wgf11draw.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20WGF11%20Draw%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




