---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WGF11 Fill Rules
description: WGF11 Fill Rules
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 4b6f9f73-9401-41e9-8083-f2cf04c77ee5
---

# WGF11 Fill Rules


This automated test verifies whether the device is consistent with the triangle fill rules and point fill rules as detailed in the DX11 specification.

The test draws geometry in various orientations relative to sample locations, and verifies that fill rules are observed. Test cases cycle on different formats, pixel positions, sample counts, quality levels, and sample indices. The geometry drawn can be a triangle or a point.

This topic applies to the following test jobs:

-   WGF11 Fill Rules

-   WGF11 Fill Rules (WoW64)

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D101Core.D3D101CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D10Core.D3D10CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D111Core.D3D111CorePrimary Device.Graphics.AdapterRender.D3D11Core.D3D11CorePrimary</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows RT (ARM-based) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows RT 8.1 Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~10 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites](graphic-adapter-or-chipset-testing-prerequisites.md)..

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing](troubleshooting-devicegraphics-testing.md).

Test cases return one of the following results:

-   Pass

-   Fail

-   Blocked

-   Skipped

The log file contains specific details about the test cases that are failed, blocked, or skipped. A test case will return Skipped if it is invalid according to the hardware configuration (some features are optional and may not be supported by some hardware) and the command line options (some test cases are only valid for certain feature levels). A test case will return Blocked if the failure is caused by reasons other than the tested feature. To review test details, review the test log from the Windows HCK Manager.

## More information


.

### Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Wgf11fillrules</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Runs the test jobs. Without any options, the test enumerates devices.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-FeatureLevel:XX.X</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the feature level, where XX.X is the Feature Level the test will run at: 10.0, 10.1, or 11.0.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

**Note**  
For command line help for this test binary, type **/?**.

 

### File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Configdisplay.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\tools\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11_1sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3d11ref.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3d11sdklayers.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>D3dcompiler_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>D3dx10_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>d3dx11_test.dll</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\support\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TDRWatch.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wgf11fillrules.exe</p></td>
<td><p><em>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</em>\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\conf</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 






