---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WIA Tester
description: WIA Tester
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 22d04615-a8dd-41ed-93c0-83855f0236a9
---

# WIA Tester


This automated test uses the Windows® Image Acquisition (WIA) test tool to verify that all WIA properties for pre-Vista style drivers are implemented according to the Windows Driver Kit (WDK) and previously published Windows Vista Logo requirements. It also verifies that the structure of the WIA item tree that is built by a pre-Vista scanner driver is correct.

This test should help driver developers to detect property errors and item tree implementation errors.

**Note**  
WIA 2.0 is a requirement for the test to pass in Windows 8, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2. WIA 2.0 is not a requirement for Windows Vista.

 

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Imaging.Scanner.Base.WIAArchitecture</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Scanner Testing Prerequisites](scanner-testing-prerequisites.md).

Before running this test the Wdk\\ConfigureScanner dimension must be added to the computer pool. To do add the dimension to the computer pool, complete the following steps:

1.  From the Windows HCK Studio, open the Job Monitor.

2.  Select the computer pool containing the test computer that the test scanner is attached to.

3.  Right-click the computer pool to open the properties page, and then select the **MCU Policy** tab.

4.  From the available dimension list select **Wdk\\ConfigureScanner**, add it to the machine pool and then click **Ok**.

In addition, if your device supports automatic document feeding, this test requires the following:

-   Enough paper in the feeder (usually about 50 pages).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Imaging Testing](troubleshooting-deviceimaging-testing.md)

**Warning**  
Do not install or uninstall imaging devices during test. Do not run any imaging applications during the test run.

 

## More information


This tool uses information that is stored in an XML file and test scripts to verify the correct implementation of the WIA properties.

Each WIA property defined in Windows SDK and WDK documentation has the following attributes:

-   Data type

-   Access type

-   Required items

-   Optional items

-   Legal values (list or range)

-   Dependencies on other properties

The tool consists of a test application, an XML file listing all properties, and one test script per property. The test application allows a tested property or set of properties to be specified through command line parameters, reads property test scripts and XML data, and compares the results to the property implementation in a WIA driver. The test fails if the expected property attributes and implemented property attributes do not match. The test succeeds if all tested properties are implemented according to WDK requirements.

**Tool components:**

-   Console test application WIATester.exe - supports multiple command line parameters. The console test application also exports test information to a WTT log file, console, and custom log window (optional).

-   GUI application WiaTestGui.exe - collects test parameters through the user interface and runs WiaTreeProperties.exe to perform testing.

-   WiaTestLog.exe - custom log window, which can be used for displaying test output. See the -w command switch information below.

-   WiaPropDB.dll - managed assembly for reading WIA properties. The XML database is stored in WiaTreeProp.xml file.

-   \*.wis files - test suites (groups of test scripts).

-   \*.wia files - test scripts used by the WIATester.exe application.

**Running WIA tests**

WIA tests may fail if you do not use the WIA friendly name. To resolve this, follow these steps:

1.  Restart the DTM Client and wait for it to log in.

2.  Close the Device Console.

3.  Re-open the submission.

This will ensure that the gatherer data is in-sync and that the WIA friendly name is populated.

If the steps above do not work, please work with your driver developer to make sure that the INF is referencing the driver correctly.

 

 






