---
author: joshbax-msft
title: WIA Filters
description: WIA Filters
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: e5480e01-1002-46f2-be8b-d1a6565a3bb2
---

# WIA Filters


This automated test helps Windows® Image Acquisition (WIA) driver developers to implement their WIA filters in accordance with Windows Driver Kit (WDK) and Windows Certification requirements.

**Note**  
WIA 2.0 is a requirement for the test to pass in Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Server 2008, and Windows Server 2012. WIA 2.0 is not a requirement for Windows Vista.

 

The test consists of a single executable, which uses wttlog.dll to write test results to the console and to a WTT log file (WiaFilters.wtl) in the current directory. Command-line parameters can be used to specify the device that is being tested, to log output details, and to perform error handling. All parameters are optional. If a device ID is not specified at the command line, the first installed WIA device with a Windows Vista-compatible driver will be selected for testing.

## Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Associated requirements</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Device.Imaging.Scanner.Base.wia20</p>
<p>[See the device hardware requirements.](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=254483)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Platforms</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Windows 7 (x64) Windows 7 (x86) Windows 8 (x64) Windows 8 (x86) Windows Server 2012 (x64) Windows Server 2008 R2 (x64) Windows 8.1 x64 Windows 8.1 x86 Windows Server 2012 R2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Expected run time</strong></p></td>
<td><p>~2 minutes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Categories</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Certification Functional</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Automated</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Scanner Testing Prerequisites](scanner-testing-prerequisites.md).

Before running this test the Wdk\\ConfigureScanner dimension must be added to the machine pool. To do add the dimension to the machine pool, complete the following:

1.  From the Windows HCK Studio, open the Job Monitor.

2.  Select the computer pool containing test computer that the test scanner is attached to.

3.  Right-click the computer pool to open the properties page, and then select the **MCU Policy** tab.

4.  From the available dimension list select **Wdk\\ConfigureScanner**, add it to the machine pool and then click **Ok**.

In addition, if your device supports automatic document feeding, this test requires the following:

-   Enough paper in the feeder (usually about 50 pages).

## Troubleshooting


For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Device.Imaging Testing](troubleshooting-deviceimaging-testing.md)

**Note**  
To enable logging, wttlog.dll must be in the DLL search path.

 

For test failures, search for the term “+sev” in the log.

**Test specific troubleshooting details**

When running this test, be advised of the following:

-   Test when only the device being tested is installed on the test machine.

-   Use debug logging (-v:debug) if quiet logging output does not provide enough information.

-   Run the test under a debugger and trace the calls into filters code.

-   WIA tests may fail if you do not use the WIA friendly name. To resolve this, follow these steps:

    1.  Restart the Windows HCK client and wait for it to log in.

    2.  Close the Device Console.

    3.  Re-open the submission.

    This will ensure that the gatherer data is in-sync and that the friendly name is populated.

    **Note**  
    If the steps above do not work, please work with your driver developer to make sure that the INF is referencing the driver correctly.

     

**Warning**  
Do not run any other scanning applications while you are running the test. Do not install/uninstall imaging devices while you are running the test.

 

## More information


To run this test manually, follow these steps:

1.  Install Windows Vista and wttlog.dll in DLL search path.

2.  Install the scanner and its Windows Vista-compatible WIA driver.

3.  Verify the scanner is ready to scan. This includes the following:

    -   Paper loaded in ADF unit

    -   Film/transparency adapter ready

4.  Copy WiaFilters.exe to a local folder.

5.  Run WiaFilters.exe and look at console output and generated WiaFilters.wtl file for test results.

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hck\p_hck%5D:%20WIA%20Filters%20%20RELEASE:%20%284/27/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




