---
title: WIA Properties Test
Description: WIA Properties Test
ms.assetid: acd4c8f5-f6f9-461a-ad80-a09d4c9d5ced
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# WIA Properties Test

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/acd4c8f5-f6f9-461a-ad80-a09d4c9d5ced">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/acd4c8f5-f6f9-461a-ad80-a09d4c9d5ced</b>


</conditional_block>

This automated test uses the Windows® Image Acquisition (WIA) test tool to verify that all WIA properties for pre-Vista style drivers are implemented according to the Windows Driver Kit (WDK) and Windows Vista Logo requirements. It also verifies that the structure of the WIA item tree that is built by a pre-Vista scanner driver is correct.

This test will help driver developers to detect property errors and item tree implementation errors.

>[!NOTE]
WIA 2.0 is a requirement for the test to pass in Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2 and Windows Server 2012. WIA 2.0 is not a requirement for Windows Vista.


## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Imaging.Scanner.Base.wia20</li>
<li>Device.Imaging.Scanner.Base.dataTransfer</li>
<li>Device.Imaging.Scanner.Base.WIAProperties</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x86</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_server"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> ARM64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_10"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_th2"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_rs1"></tla></li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Compatibility</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.device_imaging_additional_documentation">Device.Imaging additional documentation</b>

## Running the test

Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: <xref rid="p_hlk_test.scanner_testing_prerequisites">Scanner Testing Prerequisites</b>.

If your device supports automatic document feeding, this test requires the following:

-   Enough paper in the feeder (usually about 50 pages).

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.

For troubleshooting information, see <xref rid="p_hlk_test.troubleshooting_deviceimaging_testing">Troubleshooting Device.Imaging Testing</b>

If failure is reported somewhere in the middle of a large log file, try to determine which test script caused it. Then run this script by itself, without combining it with other tests. For example:

<example>
`WiaTreeProperties.exe -r scripts\DPA\DPA_DEVICE_TIME.wia -debug -w`

</example>
If the test crashes, try running WiaTreeProperties.exe from a command prompt under a debugger to determine the reason for the crash.

The **UseDebugLogs** parameter should only be used if the test is failing and Microsoft Support Services asks you to use this parameter.

## More information

This tool uses information stored in an XML file and test scripts to verify the correct implementation of WIA Properties. Each WIA property defined in Windows SDK and WDK documentation has the following attributes:

-   Data type

-   Access type

-   Required items

-   Optional items

-   Legal values (list or range)

-   Dependencies on other properties

The tool consists of a test application, an XML file listing all properties, and one test script per property. The test application allows a tested property or set of properties to be specified through command line parameters, reads property test scripts and XML data, and compares the results to the property implementation in a WIA Driver. The test fails if the expected property attributes and implemented property attributes do not match. The test succeeds if all tested properties are implemented according to WDK requirements.

This tool includes:

-   Console test application WiaTreeProperties.exe - supports multiple command line parameters. The console test application also exports test information to a WTT log file, console, and custom log window (optional).

-   GUI application WiaTreePropertiesGUI.exe - collects test parameters through UI and runs WiaTreeProperties.exe to perform testing.

-   WiaTestLog.exe - custom log window, which may be used for displaying test output. See the -w command switch.

-   WiaPropDB.dll - managed assembly for reading WIA Properties. The XML database is stored in WiaTreeProp.xml file

-   \*.wis files - test suites (groups of test scripts)

-   \*.wia files - test scripts, used by WiaTreeProperties.exe application

**Running WIA Tree Properties test**

WIA tests may fail if you do not use the WIA Friendly name. To resolve this, follow these steps:

1.  Restart the DTM Client and wait for it to log in.

2.  Close the Device Console.

3.  Re-open the submission.

This will ensure that the gatherer data is in-sync and that the friendly name is populated.

If the steps above do not work, please work with your driver developer to make sure that the INF is referencing the driver correctly.

## Parameters

| Parameter name                                     | Parameter description |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| <mark type="bullet_intro">LLU\_LclAdmin.DomUsr</b> | LLU\_LclAdmin.DomUsr  |
| <mark type="bullet_intro">LLU\_NetAccessOnly</b>   | LLU\_NetAccessOnly    |





