---
title: Secure Boot Logo Test
description: Secure Boot Logo Test
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: eab12ad4-4421-4edc-9dd2-6ae872db5e13
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.45ea8a48-d845-4400-b4a4-a4aeb8af686e"></span>Secure Boot Logo Test


This test verifies the out-of-box configuration and basic functionality of Secure Boot. Most of this test is automated, with the exception of dialog boxes that remind you of prerequisites for this test and the post-test step of turning Secure Boot off to run other tests.

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Fundamentals.Firmware.UEFISecureBoot</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Compatibility</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>60</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [System.Fundamentals additional documentation](system-fundamentals-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [WDTF System Fundamentals Testing Prerequisites](wdtf-system-fundamentals-testing-prerequisites.md).

Before you run the test, Secure Boot option should be in the default shipping (out-of-box) configuration, specifically:

-   Secure Boot option must be ON.

-   Microsoft Keys are in Key-Exchange key (KEK) and signature database (db).

-   No Microsoft test keys are allowed in the Public Key (PK), KEK or signature database.

-   DBX is shipped up-to-date out-of-the-box.

This test requires that the system is imaged through the OEM manufacturing process (TPM should be cleared before OS is laid down and installed as part of the deployment). This test should only be run on systems that have gone through an OEM-style imaging process.

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting the Windows HLK Environment](p_hlk.troubleshooting_the_windows_hlk_environment).

This test returns Pass or Fail. To review test details, review the test log from Windows Hardware Lab Kit (Windows HLK) Studio.

**Note**  
This test will fail unless a production signed OS is used and all the driver are signed.

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hlk_test\p_hlk_test%5D:%20Secure%20Boot%20Logo%20Test%20%20RELEASE:%20%288/29/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




