---
title: DXVA High Definition Video Processing - CreateVideoProcessor
Description: DXVA High Definition Video Processing - CreateVideoProcessor
ms.assetid: 7877b439-0336-4f04-a8da-3c81f93b5b5d
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# DXVA High Definition Video Processing - CreateVideoProcessor

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/7877b439-0336-4f04-a8da-3c81f93b5b5d">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/7877b439-0336-4f04-a8da-3c81f93b5b5d</b>


</conditional_block>

This manual test runs test cases across the following: IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorCaps, IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorCustomRates, IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorFilterRange, IDXVAHD\_Device::CreateVideoProcessor.

This test will, for the most part, show a ticker-like window incrementing pass fail counts and showing which test case variables are being iterated upon. The test might return SKIP if the driver does not expose D3DCAPS3\_DXVAHD. In some cases, it might skip if another device is not available to query other VP GUIDs from.

For both valid and invalid calls to the API entry points, verify that the proper return values match up to those exposed by the capabilities. Also confirm the ability to create a video processor successfully. If the VP GUID is invalid, the test should return a FAIL.

## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Graphics.WDDM11.Render.DXVAHD.DXVAHD</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x86</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_server"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> ARM64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_10"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_th2"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_rs1"></tla></li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Compatibility</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.device_graphics_additional_documentation">Device.Graphics additional documentation</b>

## Running the test

Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: <xref rid="p_hlk_test.graphic_adapter_or_chipset_testing_prerequisites">Graphic Adapter or Chipset Testing Prerequisites</b>.

In addition, this test requires the following software:

-   A display driver that supports D3D9Caps.Caps3 D3DCAPS3\_DXVAHD. Specifically:

    -   D3D9 support exposing D3DCAPS3\_DXVAHD.

    -   Required output formats: D3DFMT\_X8R8G8B8, D3DFMT\_A8R8G8B8.

    -   Required input formats: D3DFMT\_X8R8G8B8, D3DFMT\_A8R8G8B8, D3DFMT\_YUY2, D3DFMT\_AYUV and any decode render targets supported.

-   dxvahdsw.dll.

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.

For troubleshooting information, see <xref rid="p_hlk_test.troubleshooting_devicegraphics_testing">Troubleshooting Device.Graphics Testing</b>.

## More information

This test verifies the following requirements:

-   IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorCaps

    -   Use a valid number of video processors from DXVAHD\_VPDEVCAPS.VideoProcessorCount.

    -   Use both a number less than the video processors count and a number greater than video processors Count verify result is E\_INVALIDARG.

    -   Validate pCaps is empty on failure.

    -   Verify VPGUID for given device works successfully with GetVideoProcessorCustomRates.

    -   Verify CustomRateCount corresponds and works properly with GetVideoProcessorCustomRates.

    -   Verify that PastFrames and FutureFrames (Counts) work accordingly with DXVAHD\_STREAM\_DATA expected counts.

-   IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorCustomRates

    -   With the valid video processor GUID for this device, then a valid GUID from another DXVAHD Device if another device can be found with a different GUID.

    -   With an invalid zeroed out GUID.

    -   Verify pRates is successfully filled when valid pVPGUID and Count are used.

    -   Use both a number less than the DXVAHD\_VPCAPS.CustomRateCount and a number greater than DXVAHD\_VPCAPS.CustomRateCount. Both should result in E\_INVALIDARG.

    -   Validate pRates is empty on failure.

-   IDXVAHD\_Device::GetVideoProcessorFilterRange

    -   Iterate over all filters, validating for any failures that pRange is NULL.

    -   Out of range filter value and validate E\_INVALIDARG.

    -   Verify Empty pRange on failure.

    -   Verify maximum value is greater than minimum.

    -   Verify the default value is within minimum and maximum values.

-   IDXVAHD\_Device::CreateVideoProcessor

    -   With the valid video processor GUID for this device, then a valid GUID from another DXVAHD Device if another device can be found with a different GUID.

    -   With an invalid zeroed out GUID.

    -   Verify ppVideoProcessor is NULL upon any failures.

## Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>DXVAHDVideoProcessing CreateVideoProcessor</p></td>
<td><p>Without any options, the test enumerates all but some extreme invalid argument test cases.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>TestPriority:[0, 1, 2]</p></td>
<td><p>By default, tests at a priority 1 level; however, priority 2 will test every permutation, including extreme invalid arg test cases. 0 is for BVT level.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>SoftwareOnly</p></td>
<td><p>Tests only the software implementation of the video processor. This was mainly used for initial testing before drivers supported the test cases.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>SaveAllFrames</p></td>
<td><p>The test has hard coded save count of invalid frames set to 100. I you want all of them saved, then use this flag. Good for high frame count test case failures.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>LogLevel:[0, 1, 2]</p></td>
<td><p>The test has the ability to be very verbose in its logging methods. By default level 0 is set, however; level one will gather increased logging info per test cases, including many stream states/blt states set. Level 2 will gather all adjusted stream states and blt states, as well as any configuration information.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>DXVAHDVideoProcessing.exe</p></td>
<td><p>[testbinroot]\nttest\windowstest\graphics\d3d\func\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dxvahdsw.dll</p></td>
<td><p>[osbinroot]\nttest\windowstest\graphics\dxva\</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Parameters

| Parameter name                                         | Parameter description                                 |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| <mark type="bullet_intro">LLU\_NetAccessOnly</b>       | LLU for net access                                    |
| <mark type="bullet_intro">ConfigDisplayCommandLine</b> | Custom Command Line for ConfigDisplay. Default: logo  |
| <mark type="bullet_intro">MODIFIEDCMDLINE</b>          | Additional command line arguments for test executable |





