---
title: Manual Test - Verify Full OS Installation by Booting from USB Disk
Description: Manual Test - Verify Full OS Installation by Booting from USB Disk
ms.assetid: 59c9e5b4-2ac8-408e-841d-0aef68136ab8
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# Manual Test - Verify Full OS Installation by Booting from USB Disk

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/59c9e5b4-2ac8-408e-841d-0aef68136ab8">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/59c9e5b4-2ac8-408e-841d-0aef68136ab8</b>


</conditional_block>

This is a manual test, and it should be run outside HLK by following the manual instructions provided below.

If this test is run as an automated test from HLK studio/controller, the test will pass by default without testing any functionality.

Manual instructions to run this test:

1.  Hardware Prerequisites
    1.  Applicable to 8998 MTP hardware only
    2.  USB hub
    3.  USB flash drive
    4.  Keyboard, mouse & USB Ethernet adapter
2.  Software Prerequisites
    1.  Prepare USB flash drive with WinPE & Full OS for installation
3.  Setting up the Test
    1.  In a powered down state, connect device to USB hub with keyboard, mouse, USB flash drive and USB Ethernet
4.  Running the Test
    1.  Press power button on device
    2.  Device will boot from USB flash drive
    3.  Device should boot into WinPE
    4.  Verify that the USB keyboard, mouse & display work in WinPE
    5.  Open a command prompt using Shift + F10 shortcut key from keyboard
    6.  Run disk part command
    7.  Run LIST VOL command
    8.  Identify the partition letter assigned for USB flash drive
    9.  Type exit to come out of disk part
    10. Type &lt;Drive Letter&gt;: to switch to USB flash drive
    11. Run TotalUpdate.bat file from USB flash drive partition
    12. Full OS imaging should complete
    13. Verify that the output of the bat file mentions imaging completed successfully.
    14. Run Configure\_KDCOM.bat file from USB flash drive partition
    15. Verify that the commands complete successfully
    16. Close the command window and any other open window which will reboot the device
    17. After shutdown, remove the usb flash drive from usb hub and the device should start Full OS installation
    18. Verify that the device boots to desktop after completion of Full OS installation
5.  Verification
    1.  USB peripherals work as expected in WinPE
    2.  Device is able to install and boot to Full OS from WinPE

>[!NOTE]
This test is associated with an optional feature: System.Client.ARM64DesktopHardware. It will not appear in the list of tests in HLK studio for a system target by default.

Optional: To enable it to show up in the list of tests for system target in HLK studio, run the following steps:

1.  In HLK Studio, select system target
2.  Right click on the selected system target
3.  Click on Add\\Modify Features
4.  A Device Feature List window will open up
5.  Scroll down to select the feature named: System.Client.ARM64DesktopHardware
6.  Click on the check box to enable this optional feature
7.  This test will now appear in the list of applicable tests for the selected system target in HLK studio


## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Client.ARM64DesktopHardware.BasicFunctionality</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>manual</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.system_client_additional_documentation">System.Client additional documentation</b>

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.



