---
title: Audio Codec - Verify Audio EffectsDiscovery (Manual) - Certification
description: Audio Codec - Verify Audio EffectsDiscovery (Manual) - Certification
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: b6cb1386-e654-4940-a86c-7ce5513bca67
---

# <span id="p_hlk_test.9ffe6819-92f8-4cd8-8174-3f74a6468c8a"></span>Audio Codec - Verify Audio EffectsDiscovery (Manual) - Certification


-   Test1/Test2

    Use WinRT APIs to check for the existence of raw mode support on a capture or render audio device. To support raw mode, the driver must support the new DDI for audio signal processing modes.

-   Test3/Test4

    Check for effects that are turned on by default in capture or render device on raw or default streams. On raw streams, the only expected effects are endpoint mode effects such as speaker compensation or speaker protection. On render stream of the **Communication** category, no effects are expected other than endpoint effects. The presence of effects in the **Other** category can also fail the test.

-   Test 5/Test 6

    In this test, all effects are disabled and then raw and default streams are queried to ensure that no effects other than must-have effects are on in the pipeline. Must-have effects include endpoint effects that cannot or should not be turned off.

-   Manual tests:

    This test ensures that when each of the effects on the UI (Windows Store App UI, or Enhancements tab in Sound Control panel) is enabled, the effects list shows up correctly.

    The test will iterate through each render/capture device and show the initial list of default effects on raw and default streams. It then prompts you to enable the effects on the UI. You can enable the effects one at a time or all at once. You should pay attention to the list of effects displayed as they choose each option. This should be repeated for each device. After the tests are done, you should press **Enter** to proceed. You are asked if the list of effects displayed is accurate. You can select **Y** or **N** as answer.

## <span id="Test_details"></span><span id="test_details"></span><span id="TEST_DETAILS"></span>Test details


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Specifications</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Audio.Base.AudioProcessing</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Platforms</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</li>
<li>Windows 10 for desktop editions x64</li>
<li>Windows Server 2016 x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Supported Releases</strong></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Windows 10</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1511</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1607</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Expected run time (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Category</strong></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Timeout (in minutes)</strong></td>
<td>60</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Requires reboot</strong></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Requires special configuration</strong></td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type</strong></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <span id="Additional_documentation"></span><span id="additional_documentation"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_DOCUMENTATION"></span>Additional documentation


Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   [Device.Audio additional documentation](device-audio-additional-documentation.md)

## <span id="Running_the_test"></span><span id="running_the_test"></span><span id="RUNNING_THE_TEST"></span>Running the test


Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: [Audio Device Testing Prerequisites](audio-device-testing-prerequisites.md).

## <span id="Troubleshooting"></span><span id="troubleshooting"></span><span id="TROUBLESHOOTING"></span>Troubleshooting


For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see [Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures](p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures).

For troubleshooting information, see [Troubleshooting Audio Testing](troubleshooting-audio-testing.md).

## <span id="More_information"></span><span id="more_information"></span><span id="MORE_INFORMATION"></span>More information


### <span id="Parameters"></span><span id="parameters"></span><span id="PARAMETERS"></span>Parameters

| Parameter name         | Parameter description |
|------------------------|-----------------------|
| **LLU\_NetAccessOnly** | LLU                   |

 

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bp_hlk_test\p_hlk_test%5D:%20Audio%20Codec%20-%20Verify%20Audio%20EffectsDiscovery%20%28Manual%29%20-%20Certification%20%20RELEASE:%20%288/29/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




