---
title: Manual Test - Tshell over KDNET
Description: Manual Test - Tshell over KDNET
ms.assetid: f7fb6a53-b8cb-4f02-b0e6-2581dd3be89f
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# Manual Test - Tshell over KDNET

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/f7fb6a53-b8cb-4f02-b0e6-2581dd3be89f">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/f7fb6a53-b8cb-4f02-b0e6-2581dd3be89f</b>


</conditional_block> This is a manual test & it should be run outside HLK by following the manual instructions provided below. If this test is run as an automated test from HLK studio/controller, the test will pass by default without testing any functionality. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Manual instructions to run this test: The Texus Shell (TShell) is a tool that allows users to interact with Windows Phone devices via a PowerShell command prompt or script. This includes running commands in the device command interpreter, copying files, executing processes, and attaching a debugger. This document does not cover installation of TShell. (It should have been installed as part of the HLK.) In order for TShell to connect to a physical device, the device needs to have an ethernet connection established which TShell can use to communicate with it. To boot an image on a physical device with an ethernet connection, you must set up a KDNet connection. To set up KDNet, ensure that the network your PC is on has an active DHCP server, and then: 1. Boot the device in mass storage mode. 2. Run ‘cfgdbg /N:1.2.3.4’ (replace 1.2.3.4 with the IP address of your PC) 3. Ensure Virtual Ethernet (virteth.exe) is running on your PC. 4. Reboot the device. 5. FFutool -skip 6. You should see some lines appear on the Virtual Ethernet console indicating that your device is connected. On the device, if you navigate to Settings/About, you will be able to see its IP address, allocated from the DHCP server. a. Note: If Virtual Ethernet crashes immediately, ensure that no more than one PC network interface has “Virtual Machine Network Services” enabled, and try running Virtual Ethernet again and reboot the device. Now you can run TShell commands. Once it has fully booted, use the open-device command to connect to it. PS C:\\&gt; open-device 10.xx.xx.xx Now, ensure that commands can be run: PS C:\\&gt; cmd-device dir C:\\test Finally, close the connection. PS C:\\&gt; close-device --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Note: This test is associated with an optional feature: System.Client.MobileHardware. It will not appear in the list of tests in HLK studio for a system target by default. Optional: To enable it to show up in the list of tests for system target in HLK studio, run the following steps: 1\] In HLK Studio, select system target 2\] Right click on the selected system target 3\] Click on Add\\Modify Features 4\] A Device Feature List window will open up 5\] Scroll down to select the feature named: System.Client.MobileHardware 6\] Click on the check box to enable this optional feature 7\] This test will now appear in the list of applicable tests for the selected system target in HLK studio

## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>System.Client.MobileHardware.BasicFunctionality</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_mobile"></tla> ARM</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_10"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_th2"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_rs1"></tla></li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>15</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>manual</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.system_client_additional_documentation">System.Client additional documentation</b>

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.



