---
title: Winsock Core Functional Test
Description: Winsock Core Functional Test
ms.assetid: 223ef875-b983-45ef-a54f-53c6909103e5
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# Winsock Core Functional Test

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/223ef875-b983-45ef-a54f-53c6909103e5">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/223ef875-b983-45ef-a54f-53c6909103e5</b>


</conditional_block>

This automated test iterates through some of the core Winsock functionality against a loopback interface and verifies whether the Winsock API interface is correctly maintained.

All tests cover IPv4 and IPv6 sockets, which all bind to the loopback interface. Variations are as follows:

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Socket Catalog.</b> Enumerates the Winsock catalog, creates a socket for each returned **protocolinfo** structure (each protocol tuple), and binds it to the loopback interface.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">OVERLAPPED IO.</b> Creates both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets, establishes a connection over loopback, and sends data between sockets via blocking send and overlapped receive calls. All data is verified as received.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">TransmitFile variation.</b> Verifies that **TransmitFile** correctly sends data and implements the **TF\_DISCONNECT** flag for socket reuse for both IPv4 and IPv6 sockets. Creates a 260-byte temporary file and transmits over a TCP connection via **TransmitFile**. The listening socket uses **AcceptEx** to verify the connection and socket reuse.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">ConditionalAccept.</b> Verifies semantics of conditional accept over both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets. Tests five connections: without a listener, returning **CF\_REJECT**, returning **CF\_ACCEPT**, returning **CF\_DEFER + CF\_REJECT**, and returning **CF\_DEFER + CF\_ACCEPT**.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Streams.</b> Blocks send/receive over IPv4 and IPv6 TCP stream sockets. Defers calling acceptance with a zero listen backlog until the connection has finished.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Datagrams.</b> Verifies sending and receiving of datagrams over IPv4 and IPv6 UDP sockets. Tests both sending datagrams via connect/send/receive and connectionless send to/receive from.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Select.</b> Verifies **READFDS** notification on both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets for indications of connection establishment, receiving data, and closure of the socket.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Bind.</b> Verifies bind semantics for IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets: basic bind, **SO\_REUSEADDR** binds, and **SO\_EXCLUSIVEADDRUSE** binds.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">ReadFile/WriteFile.</b> Verifies whether overlapped **ReadFile()** and **WriteFile()** functions work correctly over both IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Shutdown.</b> Verifies **shutdown()** semantics on IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets by establishing a connection, posting a blocking receive, and verifying whether calling shutdown completes the receive with zero bytes received.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Addressing.</b> Verifies the conversion of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses from h, decimal, and octal strings to the corresponding socket address structure values (**WSAAddressToString** and **WSAStringToAddress**).

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">Multicast.</b> For IPv4 and IPv6, verifies the joining to multicast groups via **IP\_ADD\_MEMBERSHIP** and **IPV6\_ADD\_MEMBERSHIP**, sending and receiving data to the group, and leaving the group.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">JoinLeaf.</b> For IPv4 and IPv6, verifies the joining to multicast groups via **WSAJoinLeaf**, sending and receiving data to the group, and leaving the group.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">AsyncSelect.</b> For IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets, verifies that **FD\_CONNECT**, **FD\_SEND**, and **FD\_READ** Windows messages are processed via **WSAAsyncSelect**. Also verifies whether **FD\_CONNECT** is processed when a multicast socket completes **WSAJoinLeaf**.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">IOCP.</b> For IPv4 and IPv6 TCP sockets, makes overlapped receive calls in which the socket is associated with an I/O completion port. Also verifies whether the overlapped completions are processed and all data is received.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">RAW socket.</b> For IPv4 and IPv6, creates raw sockets, sending and receiving Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) messages via **OVERLAPPED IO**.

-   <mark type="bullet_intro">PnP.</b> Verifies whether overlapped address change notification is signaled when non-loopback IP addresses are added to and removed from the first non-loopback.

For more information about the Winsock API, see <xref hlink="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=236050">Windows Sockets 2</b>.

## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Filter.Driver.FileSystem.MiniFilter</li>
<li>Filter.Driver.AntiVirus.MiniFilter</li>
<li>Filter.Driver.AntiVirus.Winsock</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x86</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_server"></tla> x64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_10"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_th2"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_rs1"></tla></li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Development</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.filter_driver_additional_documentation">Filter.Driver additional documentation</b>

## Running the test

For more information about requirements, see <xref rid="p_hlk_test.file_system_testing_prerequisites">File System Testing Prerequisites</b>.

In addition, this test requires the following software:

-   A filter driver to be tested along with any supporting application suite

-   At least one connected network interface that has a valid IPv4 and IPv6 address

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.

For troubleshooting information, see <xref rid="p_hlk_test.troubleshooting_file_system_testing">Troubleshooting File System Testing</b>.

All test cases return Pass or Fail. To review test details, review the test log from Windows HLK Studio.

>[!NOTE]
Windows Firewall may open a message that suggests that the firewall may be blocking some features of the test. However, the firewall does not affect the test. You can safely ignore this message.


If this procedure does not provide a successful test result, submit the test log with device-specific or system-specific details to the Windows Hardware Lab Kit (HLK) Support alias.

## More information

## Command syntax

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Command option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Winsockfunctional -protocol ip -t &quot;Winsock API\Current Protocols (IPv4/IPv6)\BVT&quot; -wtt -r -dontdisable -ipsec -notrace</strong></p></td>
<td><p>You must supply this core argument.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>-lsponly</strong></p></td>
<td><p>You must append this argument when an LSP is installed.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

>[!NOTE]
For command-line help for this test binary, type **/h**.


## File list

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Location</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>WinsockFunctional.exe</p></td>
<td><p><placeholder>&lt;[testbinroot]&gt;</placeholder>\NTTest\NetTest\Winsock\common\</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>WinsockFunctional.wtl</p></td>
<td><p>Detailed output log that contains the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wsbvt.log</p></td>
<td><p>Summary output log of the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Bvterr.log</p></td>
<td><p>Summary output log of the test results</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Fnshell.ini</p></td>
<td><p>Temporary .ini file that the test generates and uses</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Parameters

| Parameter name                                   | Parameter description |
|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| <mark type="bullet_intro">LLU\_LocalAdmin</b>    | LLU for execution     |
| <mark type="bullet_intro">LLU\_NetAccessOnly</b> | LLU for Copy          |





