---
title: Windows Hid Validation Test
Description: Windows Hid Validation Test
ms.assetid: b3bd635c-bbcc-4eef-8d78-68d7337160da
author: sapaetsc-msft
ms.author: sapaetsc
ms.date: 08/28/17
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# Windows Hid Validation Test

<conditional_block> <conditions> <docset value="standalone"></docset> </conditions>

>[!NOTE]
You can find the latest version of this test documentation on MSDN at the following link:

-   <xref hlink="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/b3bd635c-bbcc-4eef-8d78-68d7337160da">http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/b3bd635c-bbcc-4eef-8d78-68d7337160da</b>


</conditional_block>

This test verifies that Windows® Touch device firmware is human interface device (HID)-compliant and doesn't require additional driver installation.

## Test details

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Specifications</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Device.Input.Digitizer.Touch.HIDCompliant</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Platforms</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x86</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> x64</li>
<li><tla rid="win_threshold_desktop"></tla> ARM64</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Supported Releases</b></td>
<td><ul>
<li><tla rid="win_10"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_th2"></tla></li>
<li><tla rid="win_10_rs1"></tla></li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1703</li>
<li>Windows 10, version 1709</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Expected run time (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Category</b></td>
<td>Compatibility</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Timeout (in minutes)</b></td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires reboot</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Requires special configuration</b></td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><mark type="bullet_intro">Type</b></td>
<td>automatic</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Additional documentation

Tests in this feature area might have additional documentation, including prerequisites, setup, and troubleshooting information, that can be found in the following topic(s):

-   <xref rid="p_hlk_test.device_input_additional_documentation">Device.Input additional documentation</b>

## Running the test

Before you run the test, complete the test setup as described in the test requirements: <xref rid="p_hlk_test.windows_touch_testing_prerequisites">Windows Touch Testing Prerequisites</b>.

## Troubleshooting

For generic troubleshooting of HLK test failures, see <xref rid="p_hlk.troubleshooting_windows_hlk_test_failures">Troubleshooting Windows HLK Test Failures</b>.

For troubleshooting information, see **Troubleshooting Device.Digitizer Testing**.

## More information

**HIDvalidator.exe** checks your HID descriptor to ensure compliance with the HID specification. It ensures that all necessary usages are present, and catches invalid values. Thirty-four rules are validated. This tool produces an easy-to-read report.

## Rules

-   Rule 1: Touch-screen devices must support multiple touches.

-   Rule 2: Device must support at least 5 contacts.

-   Rule 3: Device must use parallel or hybrid packet reporting mode or single-finger hybrid reporting mode. When the device is connected through I2C, “single-finger hybrid” is required.

-   Rule 4: A usage item tag must be associated with any collection (such as a pen, touch screen, or finger).

-   Rule 5: The report descriptors for the touch device should use the finger (0x22) CL (Collection Logical) to group the data and control usages in the top-level collections.

-   Rule 6: Device must report generic X and generic Y.

-   Rule 7: The logical minimum and the logical maximum of the generic X must be specified correctly.

-   Rule 8: The logical minimum and the logical maximum of the generic Y location must be specified correctly.

-   Rule 9: The physical minimum and the physical maximum of the generic X location must be specified correctly.

-   Rule 10: The physical minimum and the physical maximum of the generic Y location must be specified correctly.

-   Rule 11: The minimum physical size of a digitizer must be at least 1 square inch (1 inch for generic X).

-   Rule 12: The minimum physical size of a digitizer must be at least 1 square inch (1 inch for generic Y).

-   Rule 13: The unit for the physical size of generic X must be inch or centimeter.

-   Rule 14: The unit for the physical size of generic Y must be inch or centimeter.

-   Rule 15: If the device supports z-axis detection, in-range must be supported as well.

-   Rule 16: Device that support the center value must also support the width and height usages. Devices should have a usage array of two X values and two Y values to report T and C.

-   Rule 17: Device must report “tip” switch.

-   Rule 18: Device must report scan time in the top-level collection, must have a minimum report length of 16 bits, must be less than or equal to 0x7fffffff, and must be at least 65,535.

-   Rule 19: Device must report actual count usage correctly in the top-level collection.

-   Rule 20: Device must support the contact identifier usage to specify the identifier of the current contact.

-   Rule 21: Device must implement the maximum count usage correctly in the top-level collection as a feature report, and not in any child collection.

-   Rule 22: The contact count maximum for a device must not exceed 250.

-   Rule 23: Device must implement the firmware key usage correctly with a length of 256 bytes on the user-defined usage page and in the top-level collection as a feature report.

-   Rule 24: The device configuration feature report must be in its own top-level collection and must include the multiple input configuration usages.

-   Rule 25: A logical range must be provided for all usages.

-   Rule 26: Supporting usages that belong to the usage page digitizer should be assigned to the digitizer (0x0D).

-   Rule 27: Supporting usages that belong to the usage page generic desktop should be assigned to the generic desktop (0x01).

-   Rule 28: All usages that are associated with the generic desktop usage page should be recognized.

-   Rule 29: All usages that are associated with the digitizer usage page should be recognized.

-   Rule 30: Usage should not be defined as 0 for any usage pages.

-   Rule 31: The physical range of the azimuth must be 0 to 360 degrees. The logical range must be large enough to deliver data that's accurate to at least 2 decimal places.

-   Rule 32: The units exponent of the azimuth usage must be accurate to at least 2 decimal places in degree, or it must be accurate to at least 4 decimal places in radians.

-   Rule 33: The units of the azimuth usage must be in degrees or radians.

-   Rule 34: The number of collections and end collections must match in the descriptor file. (Not available for real time.)





